# iterative-bridge-design-and-analysis
This project focuses on the concept of iterative design in engineering. After research was conducted and a design process completed, a bridge was made out of pasta and low quality glue. The bridge was tested on a top loading force instrument and the maximum supported load and the corresponding bridge displacement was recorded. After a brief analysis of failure points and further research on bridge design, the bridge was redesigned and retested. A program was then written in MATLab to analyze the max tension of the two designs.

The program was built for a very specific type of data format. It reads an excel file with the load in the second column and displacement in the fourth. It also requires the user input of weight and a breaking point. The program then calculates the maximum load held, the strength (load over bridge weight), and the tension (the product of load and displacement). Since the load is not constant, the program uses basic Reiman sums to calculate the integral under the curve of a load versus displacement graph manually. The program then prints this information to the console and to a new save file for the user.

Take Aways:
Trial and error is perhaps the most thorough method of learning how to accomplish a task. This is how we design machines to learn and how many great discoveries and inventions were made. This is because testing and retesting allows us to learn that which we didn’t know was unknown to us. Many times, model testing allows us to observe the effects of an unpredictable world on a design. It allows us to observe problems that are incalculable, like small inconsistencies in materials or dimensions. Testing a model allows us to understand how the design would actually function, since we can never calculate anything one-hundred percent accurately. In order to get the most information out of these models and design the best improvement, it is important to have multiple perspectives. This is why a having team is the best option when attacking a problem, and why it is important to be able to work well with that team. I have improved my skills as a team member through my time in university. I have learned to be empathetic towards others and to respect their views. I have learned to release my biases and own personal agendas in order to professionally design or choose the best product. Most importantly I have learned how manage and moderate my team so that they are also working in a efficient and professional manner.
